---
title: Storage
url: https://pve.proxmox.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Storage&diff=12573&oldid=12310
date: '2026-05-21'
author: Api
feed_url: https://pve.proxmox.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Special:RecentChanges&feed=atom
---
← Older revision Revision as of 20:33, 21 May 2026 Line 118: Line 118: 2: On file based storages, snapshots are possible with the qcow2 format, 2: On file based storages, snapshots are possible with the qcow2 format, either using the internal snapshot function, or snapshots as volume chains4. either using the internal snapshot function, or snapshots as volume chains4. Creating and deleting internal qcow2 snapshots will block a running VM and is not an efficient operation. The performance is particularly bad with network storages like NFS. On some setups and for large disks (multiple hundred GiB or TiB sized), these operations may take several minutes, or in extreme cases, even hours. If your setup is affected, create and remove snapshots while the VM is shut down, expecting a long task duration. 3: It is possible to use LVM on top of an iSCSI or FC-based storage. 3: It is possible to use LVM on top of an iSCSI or FC-based storage. That way you get a shared LVM storage That way you get a shared LVM storage Line 213: Line 219: snippets snippets Snippet files, for example guest hook scripts Snippet files, for example guest hook scripts import OVAs and VM disk images that can be imported from this storage shared shared Indicate that this is a single storage with the same contents on all nodes (or Indicate that this is a single storage with the same contents on all nodes (or
